

Foremost, most of our so-called disabilities or other protected classes (race, age) are discrete.

Foremost, classes which garner protection are not only largely immutable  - we all (sadly) age, race and orientation can't be changed, and gender identity and sex are outward, not inward, changes - but they also rarely affect one's ability to perform in a given job.

In my thinkings on the issue, I arrived at a semi-resolution for my own issue with what you raise in your first point.  Classes which currently garner protection are largely immutable: we all age (sadly), race and orientation can't be changed, and disabilities may be augmented through technology but still remain.  As for those that can change, gender identity, sex, and religious affiliation are outward, not inward, changes, and I think that makes all the difference.


That being said, we already have plenty of exceptions to "discrimination" against these classes when it DOES affect job performance.  A 5'4" individual is unlikely to perform efficiently enough in a warehouse stacking 150-pound boxes.  Nobody would prevent a theatre from ignoring Asian or European actors auditioning for a performance of Raisin in the Sun and Molly Ringwald is probably past her ability to play Annie.  It is worth mentioning a classic loophole - Casinos don't hire waitresses, they hire "serving models," as models needs be chosen based on age and appearance.  They would probably be legally protected in hiring "waitresses" anyway but it avoids a fair amount of legal entanglement.

But doesn't outward appearance have the potential to affect many jobs?








Secondly, most of our protected "disabilities" are somewhat discrete, measurable features.  While they may exist on a spectrum, it's simple (albeit not easy or trivial) to set an arbitrary cutoff for "impoverished" or "disabled."  These are characteristics that have significant, society-wide implications.






Immutable or not, appearance is a trait, not a characteristic.


Appearance is 






Is this product, that you manufacture, found in your kitchen?

(I'm going to ignore the obvious difficulties inherently involved in the enforcing and approval process under such a system.  It will necessarily be difficult and confusing, and probably largely subjective (as I posted elsewhere, the SCOTUS' obscenity ruling would probably benefit and harm such a protection) but if it is to come to pass it will, difficult or otherwise.)

Spoken to a professional wrestler on What's My Line, Groucho espoused a rather important concept - there is a distinct difference in how the three economic sectors are constructed.  The primary and secondary sectors (natural resource use and manufacturing) are generally the so-called "harder" portions of the economy but in the developed world the vast majority of individuals are involved in the tertiary sector, the service industry.  These people, along with the "softer" side of the secondary sector (i.e. selling manufactured goods to the end consumer) are not creating a physical product, but are selling a good or service.

When you're selling something, you present the best picture you can.  The floor model is always turbo-charged, the product is always sparkling clean, and the salesperson looks appropriate for his/her service.  Politicians wear red or blue ties and flag pins, lawyers wear suits and Rolexes, and the people riding a garbage truck wear muted jumpers.  I wouldn't hire a lawyer with dreadlocks, nor would I trust a municipal waste system that saw garbage men driving BMWs.  We regularly rely upon appearance for many of our daily decisions; I want my tomatoes and bananas extremely different colors.  Why should an employer not be able to put the best face forward for their product?

With that in mind, we have in place plenty of exceptions to already-protected classes when it DOES affect job performance.  A one-armed individual is unlikely to perform effectively enough to justify working in a warehouse stacking 150-pound boxes.  Nobody would prevent a theatre from ignoring Asian or European actors auditioning for a performance of Raisin in the Sun while Molly Ringwald is probably past her ability to play in a traditional run of Annie.  The fact stands that while there may be disadvantages to being unattractive, when you are selling a service you are selling yourself.  If we must legislate against ugliness, over 75% of our workforce could theoretically be exempt; the remaining portion of miners and factory workers are not employed in places where physical attractiveness has been a serious consideration.  Why protect a group that either doesn't need protection or won't be protected?


(It is worth mentioning a classic loophole - Casinos don't hire waitresses, they hire "serving models," as models needs be chosen based on age and appearance.  They would probably be legally protected in hiring "waitresses" anyway but it avoids a fair amount of legal entanglement.







